docs: Dotnet templates (#2385)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/netcore.adoc

Currently, the following .NET templates are implemented:

* FusionAuth Blazor Server Application.
* FusionAuth MVC Application.
* FusionAuth Web API Application.

=== Requirements

* A FusionAuth installation. You can link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/[install FusionAuth locally, or sign up for a hosted account].
* .NET Core 7.0 SDK or higher.
* Visual Studio 2022 for Mac, version 17.6 and above (optional).
* Visual Studio 2022 for Windows, version 17.6 and above (optional).

=== Installing the Templates

FusionAuth .NET templates are available on link:https://www.nuget.org/packages/FusionAuth.Templates/[NuGet]. You can install them by running the following command in your terminal.

```bash
dotnet new install FusionAuth.Templates::1.0.0
```

When installed successfully, the templates will be available in the .NET CLI and Visual Studio. The installation is the same for both Windows and macOS.

=== Using the Templates

> To help you set up a valid application in FusionAuth, we have created a .NET FusionAuth link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/kickstart[Kickstart] script, available on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/tree/main/dotnet/Kickstart[GitHub]. Follow the instructions in the Github repo to set up FusionAuth for your project. If you don't want to use the Kickstart script, you can set up your application manually in FusionAuth, using the values referenced in the Kickstart script. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help you set up a valid application in FusionAuth, we have created a .NET FusionAuth link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/kickstart[Kickstart], available on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/tree/main/dotnet/Kickstart[GitHub]. Follow the instructions in the Github repo to set up FusionAuth for your project. If you don't want to use the Kickstart script, you can set up your application manually in FusionAuth, using the values referenced in the Kickstart.json file. 
```

also should link directly to the Kickstart.json file in it's final location

Reviewer: I don't see the changes for https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/tree/main/dotnet/Kickstart.  Will that come later?

> Note that the Kickstart script is designed to run when starting a newly installed FusionAuth instance the first time. The Kickstart file cannot be used on an existing FusionAuth instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the Kickstart file is designed to be used when using docker-compose-up for the first time.
```

> The Kickstart script assumes that your .NET project will be running on `HTTPS` on port `5001`. Your project might not run on the same port, as Visual Studio will randomly choose a port if the chosen one is already in use by another project. It may also be a different port if you run the project through IIS or another web server. In this case, update the `authorizedRedirectURL` and `logoutURL` variables in the `kickstart.json` file in `kickstart` directory to that of your project. If you need to, you can also update these in the Application settings page in the FusionAuth admin site in [the OAuth tab](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/applications#oauth) at any time after the Kickstart has run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The instance the Kickstart creates assumes that your .NET project will be running on `HTTPS` on port `5001`. Your project might not run on the same port, as Visual Studio will randomly choose a port if the chosen one is already in use by another project. It may also be a different port if you run the project through IIS or another web server. In this case, update the `authorizedRedirectURL` and `logoutURL` variables in the `kickstart.json` file in `kickstart` directory to that of your project. If you need to, you can also update these in the Application settings page in the FusionAuth admin site in [the OAuth tab](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/applications#oauth) at any time after the Kickstart has run.
```

Reviewer: I think you should also mention a way to get the .Net app to run on port 5001.

> Some templates will ask for a FusionAuth Client Secret when initializing a new project. Use a non-sensitive secret from a local FusionAuth installation. If you use the setup script to set up your FusionAuth instance, the Client Secret will be `change-this-in-production-to-be-a-real-secret`.

Reviewer: What script are you talking about?  Is this the something other than the kickstart?

:client_library_language!:

== FusionAuth Templates for .NET

FusionAuth has a collection of .NET templates available as a NuGet package. Quickly create new secured .NET applications with FusionAuth templates using the .NET CLI or Visual Studio. The new applications are pre-configured to use FusionAuth for authentication and authorization. Only standard .NET security libraries are used in the templates.

Currently, the following .NET templates are implemented:

* FusionAuth Blazor Server Application.
* FusionAuth MVC Application.
* FusionAuth Web API Application.

=== Requirements

* A FusionAuth installation. You can link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/[install FusionAuth locally, or sign up for a hosted account].
* .NET Core 7.0 SDK or higher.
* Visual Studio 2022 for Mac, version 17.6 and above (optional).
* Visual Studio 2022 for Windows, version 17.6 and above (optional).

=== Installing the Templates

FusionAuth .NET templates are available on link:https://www.nuget.org/packages/FusionAuth.Templates/[NuGet]. You can install them by running the following command in your terminal.

> ```bash

Reviewer: The copy icon does not work for me here.

Author: for us the copy buttons never work when we serve the documentation locally or on our dev server, but everything works on production - not sure why. Can you confirm if the other copy buttons are working for you and it's just this one that is problematic?

Reviewer 2: Copy buttons only work for me when I visit localhost:4000/localhost:3000, not 0.0.0.0:4000/0.0.0.0:3000. I suspect it is a JS loading issue with the library that provides the rating (based on js console output).

Reviewer: That is the issue.

dotnet new install FusionAuth.Templates::1.0.0
```

When installed successfully, the templates will be available in the .NET CLI and Visual Studio. The installation is the same for both Windows and macOS.

=== Using the Templates

> To help you set up a valid application in FusionAuth, we have created a FusionAuth link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/kickstart[Kickstart], available on https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/tree/main/dotnet/Kickstart/kickstart/kickstart.json[GitHub]. Follow the instructions in the https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/tree/main/dotnet/Kickstart/README.md[README.md] file to set up FusionAuth for your project. If you don't want to use the Kickstart file, you can set up your application manually in FusionAuth, using the values referenced in the https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/tree/main/dotnet/Kickstart/kickstart/kickstart.json[kickstart.json] file.

Reviewer: Are all these links supposed to work?  The Github and readme do not.

Reviewer 3: @mark-robustelli the links will work once the PR linked above that has the kickstart https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/pull/8 is merged

> Note that the Kickstart is designed to be used when starting up FusionAuth for the first time using `docker compose up`.

Reviewer: Please take a look at the "Run FusionAuth via Docker" section on how to explain getting the instance running.
[Run FusionAuth via Docker](https://fusionauth.io/docs/quickstarts/quickstart-ruby-rails-web)

Reviewer 3: @mark-robustelli we had covered the instructions in detail in the README.md here https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/pull/8/files which is part of the PR that is open https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/blob/d134775a3b1cdca558916f7785e3d0f8275a980e/dotnet/Kickstart/README.md

:client_library_language!:

== FusionAuth Templates for .NET

FusionAuth has a collection of .NET templates available as a NuGet package. Quickly create new secured .NET applications with FusionAuth templates using the .NET CLI or Visual Studio. The new applications are pre-configured to use FusionAuth for authentication and authorization. Only standard .NET security libraries are used in the templates.

Currently, the following .NET templates are implemented:

* FusionAuth Blazor Server Application.
* FusionAuth MVC Application.
* FusionAuth Web API Application.

=== Requirements

* A FusionAuth installation. You can link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/[install FusionAuth locally, or sign up for a hosted account].
* .NET Core 7.0 SDK or higher.
* Visual Studio 2022 for Mac, version 17.6 and above (optional).
* Visual Studio 2022 for Windows, version 17.6 and above (optional).

=== Installing the Templates

> FusionAuth .NET templates are available on link:https://www.nuget.org/packages/FusionAuth.Templates/[NuGet]. You can install them by running the following command in your terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FusionAuth .NET templates are available on https://www.nuget.org/packages/FusionAuth.Templates/[NuGet]. You can install them by running the following command in your terminal.
```

FusionAuth .NET templates require Visual Studio for macOS version 17.6 or higher. 

To create a new project from a template, first create or open a Solution. Then select [breadcrumb]#File -> New Project#. In the "New Project" dialog, select [breadcrumb]#Custom# from the left-hand menu. Select the FusionAuth template you want to use and click [uielement]#Continue#. Fill in the required information, including the fully qualified URL to your FusionAuth server and your FusionAuth Application Client Id. Click [uielement]#Continue#.

Set the project name and click [uielement]#Create#.

==== Visual Studio for Windows

FusionAuth .NET templates require Visual Studio for Windows version 17.6 or higher. 

To create a new project from a template, first create or open a Solution. Then select [breadcrumb]#File -> New Project#. In the "New Project" dialog, select "FusionAuth" from the "All project types" dropdown. Select the FusionAuth template you want to use. Set the project name and click [uielement]#Next#. Fill in the required information, including the fully qualified URL to your FusionAuth server and your FusionAuth Application Client Id.

Click [uielement]#Create#.

> === Testing

Reviewer 3: @mark-robustelli 

> I couldn't seem to get the webAPI to work. I tried what I thought were valid API tokens but could not seem to get it to run. got 401 everytime. I maybe missing something, but think that needs to be more clear.

I have a dded a [script](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/blob/4952a806e6bf0d50dbc970913155c13ead31fba1/dotnet/Kickstart/Program.cs) to help with testing the web API and added a section on testing to doc and to the README  https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/blob/5461e76a034b84761297f4bd4847103b37e9b6c9/dotnet/Kickstart/README.md#testing

Reviewer: Ok, I ran the tests and it seems to work.

Do not use a production or sensitive Client Secret in the template prompts, as it is stored in the `Appsettings.json.development` file, and will be available in plain text and committed to your repo. To provide the Client Secret to your application in production, you should use one of the secure methods https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-7.0&tabs=windows[recommended by Microsoft]. The platform-independent hierarchical path for the Client Secret setting is `FusionAuth__ClientSecret`.

==== .NET CLI

To create a new project from a template, run the following command.

```bash
dotnet new [template-name] [options]
```

Where `[template-name]` is the name of the template you want to use from one of the following:

- `fusionauthblazorserver` creates a new Blazor Server application with FusionAuth authentication and authorization.
- `fusionauthmvcwebapp` creates a new MVC application with FusionAuth authentication and authorization.
- `fusionauthwebapi` creates a new Web API application with FusionAuth authentication and authorization.

> Use `[options]` to provide your FusionAuth URL and FusionAuth Application Client Id. The following options are available:

Reviewer: There should be an option for a port since the application is required to run on a specific port in the FusionAuth settings.

Reviewer: nice add, thx
